README.md, before:

# Docker resource pruning tool

A simple shell script for pruning the selected Docker resources in one go.

Docker based development often leaves a lot of resources around in the
development environment. I found myself often using the various pruning
commands of the "docker" utility and wrapped up the most commonly used
sequences into a single script.


## Usage

Let the tool speak for itself...

```
$ ./docker-prune -h
Removes unused Docker resources. By default removes only the dandling images.

To remove the stopped containers and their volumes as well as unused volumes
and networks use "-s" (stopped). To stop the running containers and then remove
resources associated with all containers, use "-a" (all).

To remove all unused images including tagged ones, use "-t" (tagged).

To remove everything, use "-e" (everything), implying -a -t.

See other options below.

usage: docker-prune [-a] [-t] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune [-s] [-t] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune [-e] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune -h

options:
    -h    print this help text and exit without doing anything else
    -s    remove resources associated with the stopped containers
    -a    remove resources associated with all containers
    -t    remove tagged images that are not used by any containers
    -e    remove everything
    -q    be quiet, suppress informative output
    -f    force it, omit all confirmation dialogs
```

## Example

```
$ ./docker-prune -s -t
Will remove the stopped containers:
- container2
- ubuntuexperiment
- demo-db

Will remove their volumes and any unused volumes

Will remove tagged images not used by any container

Are you sure you want to proceed? (y/N): y

Removing unused containers...
Removed 3 unused containers
Total reclaimed space: 10.72GB

Removing unused networks...

Removing unused volumes...
Removed 2 unused volumes
Total reclaimed space: 1.427GB

Removing unused images...
Removed 17 unused images
Total reclaimed space: 1.047GB
```


## License

Copyright (c) 2021 Johannes Lehtinen

Licensed under the MIT License, see "LICENSE"

Commit message:

Added support for removing the stopped containers based on untagged images (typically left behind by failed builds). Renamed option -t to -a (and -a to -r) to follow more closely the internal docker pruning commands.

README.md, after:

# Docker resource pruning tool

A simple shell script for pruning the selected Docker resources in one go.

Docker based development often leaves a lot of resources around in the
development environment. I found myself often using the various pruning
commands of the "docker" utility and wrapped up the most commonly used
sequences into a single script.


## Usage

Let the tool speak for itself...

```
$ ./docker-prune -h
Removes unused Docker resources. By default removes only the dandling images.

To remove the stopped containers based on untagged images (typically left
behind by failed builds) and their anonymous volumes, use "-u" (untagged). To
remove all stopped containers and their volumes as well as unused volumes and
networks use "-s" (stopped).  To stop the running containers and then remove
resources associated with all containers, use "-r" (running).

To remove all unused images including tagged ones, use "-a" (all).

To remove everything, use "-e" (everything), implying -r -a.

See other options below.

usage: docker-prune [-u] [-a] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune [-s] [-a] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune [-r] [-a] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune [-e] [-q] [-f]
       docker-prune -h

options:
    -h    print this help text and exit without doing anything else
    -u    remove containers based on untagged images (by failed builds)
    -s    remove resources associated with the stopped containers
    -r    remove resources associated with all containers
    -a    remove all unused images, including tagged ones
    -e    remove everything
    -q    be quiet, suppress informative output
    -f    force it, omit all confirmation dialogs
```

## Example

```
$ ./docker-prune -s -a
Will remove the stopped containers:
- container2
- ubuntuexperiment
- demo-db

Will remove their volumes and any unused volumes

Will remove tagged images not used by any container

Are you sure you want to proceed? (y/N): y

Removing unused containers...
Removed 3 unused containers
Total reclaimed space: 10.72GB

Removing unused networks...

Removing unused volumes...
Removed 2 unused volumes
Total reclaimed space: 1.427GB

Removing unused images...
Removed 17 unused images
Total reclaimed space: 1.047GB
```


## License

Copyright (c) 2021 Johannes Lehtinen

Licensed under the MIT License, see "LICENSE"
